# Predict persistent ties between users in a CDR (Call Detail Record) Dataset 
The shared code is part of my first master's thesis. 

## Abstract of my research project
In my first thesis I used Call Detail Records(CDRs for short) dataset to predict ties persistent between users in the future. actually, we build a predictive model of tie persistence based on temporal patterns of social interaction. The CDR datasets were offered to us from National Telecommunication Research Organization of Iran, and belong to 20 different people over a period of 24 months. The CDR consisted of the items: caller ID, callee ID, time and date of event, duration of event and event type (I mean voice call or text message). The CDR of each person was in their own file, there in a single file the callee number is fixed and caller numbers are different. I defined a tie as an existence of a voice call or text message between a callee and one of the callers. For every dataset we separated all possible ties. We divide the time interval in three periods: the 10 months in the middle Ωmiddel define our observation and measurement period for the ties. We only select ties in which there are at least 5 calls in Ωmiddel between users, and among those calls there has been at least one call in each direction. The first and last periods of 7 months Ωbefore and Ωaf ter are used to assess whether the tie has decayed. We will say that the tie between user i and j has decayed if there are no calls between them in Ωaf ter. We define several intimacy features such as total number of calls, average duration of calls and reciprocity of calls. Temporal features include burstiness and memory. Both types of features are based on cognitive human relationship characteristics. To predict tie persistence we built a classification model using simple logistic regression (LogR) models where the positive class indicates tie persistence, that is, we observe at least a communication event in Ωaf ter. Using regression method we were able to measure correlation between temporal features and tie persistence. We discovered that temporal features of communication events are better and more efficient predictors for tie persistence. Afterwards, We used a train dataset using 75 of our ties in Ωmiddel and 10-fold cross validation. The performance of the model is measured using the rest 25 of our ties, achieving values around 0.7 for its accuracy. Although communication within ties is always bursty, We discovered ties that are more bursty than the average are more likely to decay.